# 70. Climbing Stairs
You are climbing a staircase. It takes n steps to reach the top.

Each time you can either climb 1 or 2 steps. In how many distinct ways can you climb to the top?

# Example 1:
Input: n = 2
Output: 2
Explanation: There are two ways to climb to the top.
1. 1 step + 1 step
2. 2 steps

# Example 2:
Input: n = 3
Output: 3
Explanation: There are three ways to climb to the top.
1. 1 step + 1 step + 1 step
2. 1 step + 2 steps
3. 2 steps + 1 step
 
# Constraints:
1 <= n <= 45

# My Wrong approach
* My first approach gave Run time error, this was after I did some digging around the internet. So the approach is atleast somewhat correct. But before I even did my side digging around the inernet my approach was wrong. I was considering base case to be: 
```
if n==0: 
  return 1
if n<0:
  return 0
``` 
inside the Helper function, this two conditions are totally unnecessary and also increases the runtime of the program. 
* In the program below the error was at `if dp[n]!=-1:` I was trying to access an element which doesnt exist as dp only exist from index 0 to n-1. Also import sys is unnecessary which I did to use `sys.maxsize()` function but it gave me error. `sum1` variable is also not required if for this same approach we did a little modification which is given in the 2nd last code.
```
import sys
class Solution:
    def Helper(self,n:int,dp):
        sum1=0     
        if n==2:
            return 2
        if n==1:
            return 1
        if dp[n]!=-1:
            return dp[n]
        dp.append(self.Helper(n-1,dp) + self.Helper(n-2,dp))
        sum1+=dp[n]
        return sum1
    
    def climbStairs(self, n: int) -> int:
        dp=[-1 for i in range(0,n)]
        return self.Helper(n,dp)
```
```
OUTPUT : RUNTIME ERROR
         IndexError: list index out of range
            if dp[n]!=-1:
```
* The code below is the modification of the above code now the dp is from index 0 to N itself. Also removed sum1 and import sys. This code also is accepted as correct solution after submission so it is time effecient too. This was done by considering dp as list. Stats of the submission are given below. The code in the forum considered dp as dictionary and solved the problem with an even bettern runtime of 28ms.
```
class Solution:
    def Helper(self,n:int,dp):   
        if n==2:
            return 2
        if n==1:
            return 1
        if dp[n]!=-1:
            return dp[n]
        dp[n]=self.Helper(n-1,dp) + self.Helper(n-2,dp)
        return dp[n]
    
    def climbStairs(self, n: int) -> int:
        dp=[-1]*(n+1)
        return self.Helper(n,dp)
```
```
Runtime: 39 ms, faster than 16.91% of Python3 online submissions for Climbing Stairs.
Memory Usage: 14.2 MB, less than 43.91% of Python3 online submissions for Climbing Stairs.
```
# What did I miss ?
* I was using helper function in all the cases as I didnt thought that leetcode's sample function definition can be edited and can be used to initialized in the function definition itself as default parameter. But this only worked in case of dictionary as I tried similary for list and got error.
* I also realised today that dp can be also used as dictionary in some problems which can help us to reduce the code and also the runtime of the program drastically.
* Realised that helper function can also be used while solving dp questions.

# Forum Correct Approach - 28ms
* This online forum code considered dp as dictionary and was faster than 80% of other python solutions. 
* Another interesting thing that I found if in the dictionary we add another key value pair of 4:5 then we get an even better runtime, ie, 24ms and it is better than 94% other python solutions. All these stats are of 11/9/21. These stats will definitely change in the future. 
```
class Solution:
    def climbStairs(self, n: int, dp={1:1,2:2,3:3}) -> int:
        if n in dp:
            return dp[n]
        dp[n]=self.climbStairs(n-1,dp) + self.climbStairs(n-2,dp)
        return dp[n]
```
```
Runtime: 28 ms, faster than 80.72% of Python3 online submissions for Climbing Stairs.
Memory Usage: 14.3 MB, less than 43.91% of Python3 online submissions for Climbing Stairs.
```

# Reference
* https://leetcode.com/problems/climbing-stairs/discuss/1455588/Python-3-oror-Solution-with-Explanation-(faster-than-94.46-Memory-less-than-90.73)
